# Don't let the money kill your passion

Amazon was killing my passion.

This isn't specific to Amazon. Probably all big tech jobs (except some places) are like this. Too much politics, too many boring projects or even worse, only maintaining existing projects.

Sometimes you have to *tank* the pain and keep going. After all, it's a **job**. But I couldn't do it.

This applies to non big tech too. Imagine getting paid shit in addition to the rest. But you don't have to do it forever. You have a choice. Get your comfortable ass up and fight your way to your dream job (assuming you don't have a family, you are not in your fifties etc...). It's a marathon, not a race.

During my whole internship, I thought about making a complete pivot from SWE to AI Research. F*ck Money and stability. But deep down, inside me, I know I'd probably still like a SWE job, just at a cool modern company. I can contribute a lot to a product with my current and future skills and I want to keep doing that.

Maybe what I need is some startup experience. The only time I actually had fun at Amazon was "Hackdays", a week dedicated to building projects that could benefit the team. I collaborated with two colleagues and working closely together was really really fun.

Something that comes to mind, even though it's probably out of reach right now (because of a lot of factors), is early DeepMind. Working there, even as a SWE, would have been a LOT of fun and incredibly meaningful.

I'll keep learning about modern AI research while reading papers, but as a side hobby.

If you want to chat (*or offer me a cool job*), DM me on [X](https://x.com/graffioh) :)