# How I accidentally became a use case for my university department

While I was preparing my thesis, the head of my university computer science department randomly invited me (without any prior notice) to give a small talk to the current bachelor students about my Amazon internship and how you can escape the usual local consultancy company internships.

I was pretty surprised, because to me it’s not that big of a deal (and it really wasn’t, at least skill-wise). The missing part is the “mind-wise”, as I always point out here in my blog posts. But now I’m hopeful, because maybe what’s really needed is just some kind of reference. Someone other students can look at and say, “hey, he did it, why can’t we?”.

During the talk, I tried my best to "de-mythologize" myself, saying that it’s really not that hard to land an internship like this (because honestly, I think you just need to grind that useless leetcode, cmon) and they were pretty enthusiastic about it. Of course you still need to be a bit skilled to perform well on the job. I was just talking about landing that type of opportunities.

It was probably the first time something like that happened in my university during bachelor (at least since the prof's been in charge), because he seemed pretty surprised and kept asking lots of questions, just like the students.

During my internship, and in general, I’ve noticed that things are evolving, but mostly in Northern Italy. I want to help bring this change to Southern Italy as well, together with others who came before me and those who will come after.

I hope that thanks to this small talk in my uni, things will start spreading wider and faster, kind of like a contagious virus, from one person to many.